# Portfolio

---

## SQL

### Rockbuster Movie Rental

Analysis of customer database for a fictional movie rental company. The objective was to analyze rental transaction
history, customer geographic distribution, and revenue models in order to make strategic recommendations for the company
to transition to online movie rental streaming. Database querying skills such as filtering, summarizing & cleaning data,
joining tables of data, subqueries, CTEs were performed in SQL. Key results were curated on an interactive Tableau
storyboard.

**Tools**: PostgreSQL, Tableau, Excel

[Case study](/case_study/Rockbuster_Case_Study.pdf)
[Tableau storyboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/chitranshi3388/viz/RockbusterProject_Revised/UpdatedStory)it 
[Github repo](https://github.com/chitranshi-singh/SQL-Rockbuster)

---

## Python

### Hotel Booking Cancellation

Analysis of hotel booking data for a city hotel and a resort hotel. The objective was to predict the factors which
contribute to hotel booking cancellations and provide data-driven recommendations to reduce cancellation rates. This
could be used to optimize booking service, anticipate when cancellations will occur and ultimately maximize revenue.
Exploratory visual analysis such as correlation heatmap, pair plots, catplots to name a few and advanced analytical
approaches such as linear regression, K-Means cluster analysis, time series analysis were conducted in Python. Key
results were curated on an interactive Tableau storyboard.

**Tools**: Python and relevant libraries (Scikit-learn, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, SciPy), Jupyter Notebook,
Tableau

[Case study](/case_study/Hotel_Cancellation_Case_Study.pdf)

[Tableau storyboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/chitranshi3388/viz/HotelCancellationProject_16939350296940/Story_new)

[Github repo](https://github.com/chitranshi-singh/Hotel-Booking-Cancellation)

---

### Instacart Market Basket Analysis

Sales analysis of a large and complex data set consisting of more than 30M records for an online grocery store. The
objective was to derive insights about buying trends and customer demographics in order to target the right customer
profiles with appropriate marketing strategies. Analytical tasks such as data wrangling & subsetting, merging data,
deriving new variables, grouping data & aggregating variables were performed in Python using Jupyter Notebook and Pandas
library. Analysis methodology, key results and recommendations were summarized into a detailed Excel report.

**Tools**: Python and relevant libraries (Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, SciPy), Jupyter Notebook, Excel

[Case study](/case_study/Instacart_Market_Basket_Case_Study.pdf)

[Github repo](https://github.com/chitranshi-singh/Python-Instacart)

[Final report](/case_study/Instacart_Final_Report.xlsx)

---

## Tableau

### Influenza Season

Analysis of US government influenza data. The objective was to examine seasonality of the virus and location of
vulnerable populations to provide recommendations to a medical staffing agency for the distribution of temporary medical
staff to clinics and hospitals. The results helped to plan for the upcoming influenza season. Descriptive statistical
methods such as standard deviation, variance, and correlation were applied to summarize and understand the data.
Inferential statistical analysis via hypothesis testing was conducted and the test results were interpreted. Key results
were curated on an interactive Tableau storyboard.

**Tools**: Python and relevant libraries (Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, SciPy), Jupyter Notebook, Excel

[Case study](/case_study/Influenza_Case_Study.pdf)

[Tableau storyboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/chitranshi3388/viz/InfluenzaProject_Final/FinalDataStory)

[Video presentation](https://vimeo.com/847822046?share=copy)


---

## Excel

### Video Game Sales Analysis

Analyze historical sales data of games that sold more than 10,000 copies spanning different platforms, genres, and
publishing studios for a fictional video game company. The objective was to compare assumptions about historical
regional sales with the reality of current market conditions to help understand how the company's new games might fare
in the market and develop a competitive go-to-market strategy. Analytical procedures such as data cleaning, grouping &
summarizing data using pivot tables, descriptive analysis were conducted using Excel. A detailed Presentation about data
insights was produced.

**Tools**: Excel

[Case study](/case_study/GameCo_Case_Study.pdf)

[Final presentation](/case_study/GameCo_Final_Presentation.pdf)


---